refresh the documentation of the plugin adoption process (#4820)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/plugin-governance/adopt-a-plugin.adoc

  In such case we can transfer ownership for plugins being hosted within the `jenkinsci` GitHub organization.
  Such transfer may take a while.

== Plugins marked for adoption

The procedure is two-fold: 

**Announce your adoption intention by mail** 

Send the notification email to the https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev[Jenkins Developers mailing list].
Be sure to provide the following information: 

* Link to a plugin you want to adopt
* The status of the plugin ("for adoption" or "abandoned")
* Link(s) to pull requests you want to deliver, if applicable
* Your GitHub username/id (e.g. oleg-nenashev for https://github.com/oleg-nenashev/)
* Your Jenkins infrastructure account id. link:https://accounts.jenkins.io/[Create your account] if you don't have one.
* The link to the "Repository Permission Updater" PR described below

**Submit a PR on the "Repository Permission Updater" repository**

> File a pull request against link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater[Repository Permission updater] to be able to deploy snapshots and releases for your plugin.

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion but I kind feel like there's not much point in mentioning snapshots, and I think it confuses people when they try and it doesn't show up in any release center?

Author: Good point. Will correct accordingly.

You need to update the plugin's definition yaml file located in the `permission` directory.
Add your Jenkins infrastructure account under the `developer` section.
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater/blob/master/README.md[Readme] for detailed guidance.

> It is a good practice to ping the current registered developers on the PR (just in case they miss the notification on the Jenkins Dev List).

Reviewer: I would make this more mandatory, good practice says to me "You should do it, but okay if it isn't". We as hosting team want approval from the existing maintainer, the two week countdown is after the attempt is made.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this section about adopting abandoning plugins where the timeout occurred in the mailing list?

Reviewer: Ah yea, I guess for up for adoption it's optional, for timeout ones it's mandatory? I would just say "Please ping" instead of "Its good practice" incase the existing maintainer wants to knowledge transfer or be informed or whatever. But yea, way less mandatory for up for adoption plugins

Author: Good suggestion.

> Once you got access to the plugin's Github repository, don't forget to remove the "adopt-this-plugin" topic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have access to the plugin's Github repository, be sure to remove the "adopt-this-plugin" topic.
```

This can be done by clicking on the gear wheel near the "About".

> == Abandonned plugins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Abandoned plugins
```

Author: Looking for an asciidoc spellcheck solution (preferably in VSC)... That would help non-native english speakers

Reviewer 2: this works fine for me: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker

For abandoned plugins, you are expected to try and reach out to existing maintainer(s) using a best effort.
The typical way to do that is to ping in GitHub and to add her/his/their email addresses in CC (hint: Git commits should have this information).
We typically wait for about 2 weeks in normal work periods before proceeding, so please be patient.
Hence, if you can prove the existing maintainer already agrees and you explicitly asked about taking over (e.g. in a PR discussion), the process can be faster.

> Once the situation clarified, proceed as for a "adoptable" plugins (see above). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the situation is clarified, proceed as for a "adoptable" plugins (see above). 
```

> On the notification email, add information about the steps taken to contact the exisiting maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the notification email, add information about the steps taken to contact the existing maintainers.
```

== Requesting commit access

=== Plugins marked for adoption

The procedure is two-fold: 

> ==== announce your adoption intention by mail 

Reviewer 4: General guidance is to use sentence case, so start with an upper case letter
```suggestion
==== Announce your adoption intention by mail 
```

> Send the notification email to the http://jenkins-ci.org/content/mailing-lists[Jenkins Developers mailing list].

Reviewer 4: Better to link directly to the mailing list
```suggestion
Send the notification email to the https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev[Jenkins Developers mailing list].
```

Reviewer 4: If you prefer to remain with the link to the lists page, please switch the link to `link:/mailing-lists/` so that it will work for local site development and will use HTTPS immediately instead of redirecting through HTTP to HTTPS

Be sure to provide the following information: 

* Link to a plugin you want to adopt

> * The status of the plugin ("for adoption" or "abandonned")

Reviewer 4: Spelling fix
```suggestion
* The status of the plugin ("for adoption" or "abandoned")
```

* Link(s) to pull requests you want to deliver, if applicable
* Your GitHub username/id (e.g. oleg-nenashev for https://github.com/oleg-nenashev/)
* Your Jenkins infrastructure account id. link:https://accounts.jenkins.io/[Create your account] if you don't have one.
* The link to the "Repository Permission Updater" PR described below

> ==== submit a PR on the "Repository Permission Updater" (RPU) repository

Reviewer 4: Sentence case and probably don't need the acronym "RPU" in the title
```suggestion
==== Submit a PR on the "Repository Permission Updater" repository
```

File a pull request against link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater[Repository Permission updater] to be able to deploy snapshots and releases for your plugin.
You need to update the plugin's definition yaml file located in the `permission` directory.
Add your Jenkins infrastructure account under the `developer` section.
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/repository-permissions-updater/blob/master/README.md[Readme] for detailed guidance.

> It is a good practice to ping the current registered developers on the PR (just in case they miss the notification pn the Jenkins Dev List).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is a good practice to ping the current registered developers on the PR (just in case they miss the notification on the Jenkins Dev List).
```

Once you got access to the plugin's Github repository, don't forget to remove the "adopt-this-plugin" topic.

> This can be done by clicking on the gear wheel near the about.

Reviewer 4: Since we're trying to point the user to an exact text location on the page, I think it might help if the precise case of the text is matched.
```suggestion
This can be done by clicking on the gear wheel near the "About".
```

> === Abandonned plugins

Reviewer 4: Spelling fix
```suggestion
=== Abandoned plugins
```
